Improve Check connection with the manager section (#5524)
wazuh/wazuh-documentation: source/user-manual/agents/agent-connection.rst

.. meta::
  :description: Find out more about how to check the connection to the Wazuh Manager in this section of our documentation. 
  
Checking connection with the Wazuh manager
==========================================

Using the Wazuh dashboard
-------------------------

You can check the connection status of any agent selecting the **Agents** menu option of the Wazuh dashboard.

.. thumbnail:: /images/manual/managing-agents/agents-menu.png
   :title: Wazuh dashboard agents menu option
   :align: center
   :width: 80%

> This option shows the **Agents** dashboard with a list of all registered agents. This list includes the connection status of each agent. This dashboard also shows the amount of agents found for each possible connection status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option shows the **Agents** dashboard with a list of all registered agents. The list includes the connection status of each agent, and the dashboard also shows the amount of agents found for each possible connection status.
```

.. thumbnail:: /images/manual/managing-agents/agents-dashboard.png
   :title: Wazuh dashboard agents menu option
   :align: center
   :width: 80%

Reading the local `wazuh-agentd.state` file
-------------------------------------------

You can read the :doc:`wazuh-agentd.state </user-manual/reference/statistics-files/wazuh-agentd-state>` file found in the endpoint to check the status of the connection. The Wazuh agent keeps reporting its connection status in this file as follows.

> -  ``pending``: Waiting for acknowledgement from the Wazuh manager about connection established.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  ``pending``: Waiting for acknowledgment from the Wazuh manager about the connection established.
```

> -  ``disconnected``: No acknowledgement signal received during the last 60 seconds or lost connection.

Reviewer: The spelling of acknowledgement is a non-American variant. For consistency, consider replacing it with the American English spelling.

> -  ``connected``: Acknowledgement about connection established received from the Wazuh manager.

Reviewer: The spelling of acknowledgement is a non-American variant. For consistency, consider replacing it with the American English spelling.

         > Select-String -Path C:\Program Files (x86)\ossec-agent\wazuh-agent.state -Pattern "^status"

      .. code-block:: console
         :class: output

         wazuh-agent.state:7:status='connected'

   .. group-tab:: macOS

      .. code-block:: console

         # sudo grep ^status /Library/Ossec/var/run/wazuh-agentd.state

      .. code-block:: console
         :class: output

         status='connected'

Using the `agent_control` utility from the server
-------------------------------------------------

You can check the status of any agent remotely by using the :doc:`agent_control <../reference/tools/agent-control>` utility found with the Wazuh server. To get the status of an agent, run the following command replacing the ``-i`` parameter with your agent ID.

.. code-block:: console

   # /var/ossec/bin/agent_control -i <YOUR_AGENT_ID> | grep ^\s+Status

.. code-block:: console
   :class: output

      Status:     Active

-  ``Active``: The Wazuh manager received the `keepalive` signal from the agent.
-  ``Disconnected``: The Wazuh manager didn't receive the `keepalive` signal during the last 10 minutes.

Using the Wazuh API
-------------------

> In addition, you can check the status of an agent requesting to the Wazuh API the `statistical information of an agent <https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/user-manual/api/reference.html#operation/api.controllers.agent_controller.get_component_stats>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, you can check the status of an agent by requesting to the Wazuh API the `statistical information of an agent <https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/user-manual/api/reference.html#operation/api.controllers.agent_controller.get_component_stats>`_.
```

.. code-block:: none

   GET /agents/<YOUR_AGENT_ID>/stats/agent

.. code-block:: JSON
   :emphasize-lines: 5

   {
     "data": {
       "affected_items": [
         {
           "status": "connected",
           "last_keepalive": "2022-08-16T20:36:27Z",
           "last_ack": "2022-08-16T20:36:30Z",
           "msg_count": 1441,
           "msg_sent": 2326,
           "msg_buffer": 0,
           "buffer_enabled": true
         }
       ],
       "total_affected_items": 1,
       "total_failed_items": 0,
       "failed_items": []
     },
     "message": "Statistical information for each agent was successfully read",
     "error": 0
   }

Checking network communication
------------------------------

Agent communication with the manager requires outbound connectivity from agent to manager. It uses the port ``1514/TCP`` by default.

> If the agent isn't connected, it may possibly mean the enrollment wasn't succesful. Check the :doc:`/user-manual/agent-enrollment/index` section for details on this. You can also check if a TCP connection to the manager is established to verify if an agent can connect to it. The result should match the agent and manager IP addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the agent isn't connected, it may possibly mean the enrollment wasn't successful. Check the :doc:`/user-manual/agent-enrollment/index` section for details on this. You can also check if a TCP connection to the manager is established to verify if an agent can connect to it. The result should match the agent and manager IP addresses.
```

Checking connection with the Wazuh manager
==========================================

> This guide shows different ways to check the connection status between an agent and the Wazuh manager as well as instructions to verify the connectivity between both servers. 

Author: ```suggestion
This guide shows different ways to check the connection status between an agent and the Wazuh manager. It also has instructions to verify the connectivity between the endpoint and the server.
```

Using the `agent_control` utility from the server
-------------------------------------------------

> You can check the :ref:`status <agent-status-cycle>` of any agent remotely by using the :doc:`agent_control <../reference/tools/agent-control>` utility found with the Wazuh server. To get the status of an agent, run the following command replacing the ``-i`` parameter with your agent ID, for example, `001`. To list all the available agents, use option ``-l`` instead. 

Author: ```suggestion
You can check the :ref:`status <agent-status-cycle>` of any agent remotely by using the :doc:`agent_control <../reference/tools/agent-control>` utility found with the Wazuh server. To get the status of an agent, run the following command replacing the ``-i`` parameter with your agent ID, for example, `001`. To list all the available agents and their status, use ``/var/ossec/bin/agent_control -l`` instead. 
```
